Virtual environments allow you to run your application using existing libraries of other people's/standard modules
(code libraries) other than the version you have in your global Python module cache (formally
known as sys.modules).  The latter, very likely,has the latest versions of the Python etc. libraries 
you like to use becuase you are a good boy/girl and keep it up to date.  

But perhaps your application, needs to use versions of the modules in the library that are older.  
Perhaps the latest libraries, currently in your module cache, have familiar functions but whose
parameters have changed (new parameters added between existing ones, dropped parameters), functions
might have been removed since you wrote your code. Maybe there are quirks/presumptions made in these
older libraries that have been "corrected". If your old app used these new libraries, strange things 
would happen e.g. typefaces might default to the wrong ones, buttons might take on the wrong size as 
the default settings for the feature have changed in the new libraries.

Now you are stuck.  How do you run your program so that is uses different versions of code libraries to
those in your current modue cache; even libraries your app uses that you don't want to make
generally available to other Python code on your machine?

Well, you create a virtual environment.  Despite its fancy name, think of it as a set of folders,
into which you place your application's source plus the versions of the modules it requires. 
Before you run your app, you make Python's runtime aware that you have this virtual environment for your 
particular app.  You can add modules to this environment by using pip adding a specific version number 
for the download to grab.  As long as you remember to tell Python to use the environment before you start the
pip download.

Go to the root folder where you app is going to be created (or exists) and type:

python -m venv .venv

When its done, you can go into the Scripts folder.
To activate your venv (so if you run your app, it uses the modules in the venv, if you install Packages
they specifically go into your venv), type:

.venv/scripts/activate for Linux/MacOS
.venv\scripts\activate.ps1 for powershell

If you need to adjust PowerShell's permissions to allow you to run scripts type then repeat above:

Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope Process -ExecutionPolicy Bypass

You shoud see (.venv) appear in your command prompt's prompt.  Changes you make will now belong to the 
virtual environment rather than the global one.

Put your source code into the root folder (i.e. the .venv folder will be one of the subfolders).  A good idea
is to create a folder called src in the root and put your code there.

Now bad news, tkinter (the GUI interface) can only be installed globally i.e. the base installation of
Python determines the version of tkinter you run.  So to try some other module:

python -m pip install requests==2.28.1

Create a small python file (main.py) and put this code to show the version of requests you
are using:

import requests
print(requests.__version__)

It should show 2.28.1 (as long as you have activated the venv).

Now try:

python -m pip install --upgrade requests

And run your earlier script again.  You should get a higher version number.

type

deactivate

Run your script to see the version of the request module.  You should see either the 
version of your current Python's installed request (from the Python global module cache)
install or, even more dramatically, told off because the request module wasn't installed
in your Python cache to begin with.  

This confirms the venv was working. Okay, if you aren't convinced, as you shouldn't entirely
be (you believe anything I say don't you?), you can reactivate the venv as described above, 
redownload a chosen version number of the request module and rerun your main.py script until you
convince yourself you can switch module version numbers by activating/deactivating the venv until
the cows come home).  This makes an excellent exercise in forcing you to remember which scripts to run, which folders they are in given how you will have
how to use ./ (current folder) ../ (previous folder) etc to find your way around the file system and
how to forcefully download modules by version number using pip.




